Last update: September 1, 2020 by Glowbug
• Coordinate notes for a Krobus schedule
• Wrote a draft of 8-heart event

-Everyday Dialogue-
(vanilla lines here for reference)
  "4": "...Have you encountered others like me, in the mines? I'm sorry if they were hostile towards you. You see, we've learned to fear humans... there have been too many... unpleasant encounters.#$e#You haven't... slain any of my friends, have you?",
        
        "Sewer_Thu6": "Please don't tell anyone about me.#$b#Most humans are frightened by us shadow people... maybe for good reason.$s#$b#But regardless, if the townspeople knew about me, I might not be safe here.",

0 Hearts
"Sewer_Mon": "Humans are fascinating to observe, but I must be careful to stay hidden.",
"Sewer_Tue": "I am too sensitive to sunlight to go out on most days.#$b#The conditions in here are perfect.#$e#Care to buy anything?",
"Sewer_Wed": "I find things here and I sell them. Care to buy anything?",
"Sewer_Thu": "Please don't tell anyone about me.#$b#Humans tend to destroy things they can't understand.",
"Sewer_Fri": "...",
"Sewer_Sat": "On Fridays I stay silent as a sign of devotion to Yoba.",
"Sewer_Sun": "...Sorry, I'm still a little wary of humans. My shop is still open to you, however.",

2 Hearts
"8": "A 1000 year war between my people and the dwarves recently ended. There's still a lot of resentment on both sides.",
"15": "Please keep my location a secret. If the dwarves knew of me, they'd surely send an assassin.",
"Fri": "...",

4 Hearts

"Fri": "...",

6 Hearts

"Sewer_Wed6": "If you put your ear up to the right pipe, you can hear into any house from down here.#$b#I wouldn't eavesdrop, though!$3"
"Fri": "...", // (with smiling face)

8 Hearts

"Fri": "...", // (with smiling face)

10 Hearts

"Fri": "...", // (with smiling face)
"Saloon_Fri10": "%Krobus is scribbling in a small notebook. He looks happy."

-Events-

Introductory
* Triggered when player first enters the sewers
* Waived in favor of intro by Marlon in SVE

(Krobus is walking around in the sewer or standing in his shop. Player enters the area. Both jump.)
Krobus: "Oh! A human..."
(Both shake a little.)
Krobus: "P-Please, don't be alarmed. I am different than the others."
Player: ("?")
Krobus: "Yes, I can speak your language. I've spent a lot of time observing humans... from the shadows."
Krobus: "..." -> (emote instead?)
Krobus: "Perhaps..."
Krobus: "I know humans like to shop. Care to see my wares?"
Player: (":)")
(fade to black)
Krobus:"I gather items I find here in the sewers to sell. I also have trinkets and treasures made by my people. I hope you find something that pleases you."

After event:
"I am open for business."

Two-Heart
* Enter the sewer at night (between 8 and 12 maybe).
* I think this event needs some work; somehow to tie into Krobus's interest in humans/eventual desire to be an ambassador between shadow people and humans/possibly other beings.

(Krobus is moving about his shop area--perhaps some added scenery?--poking at objects. Player enters.)
Krobus: Ah! Hello, [Player]!
(Krobus walks to his position when the shop is open.)
Krobus: "Feel free to peruse my shop. However, you should not stay long. I expect some of my kind to visit during the witching hour."
(question fork)
Krobus: "[Player], have you met others like me, in the mines?"
  - Yes, but they attacked me
      Krobus: "I am sorry. I hope... no... never mind."
  - No, I haven't
    Krobus: "Please be careful. They may be hostile toward you."
(End fork)
Krobus: "Most shadow people are suspicious of humans. There have been too many... unpleasant encounters."
(Krobus sad emote)
"We still have a little time before the witching hour. Do any of my wares appeal to you?"
(end)

After event:
"It is considered dishonorable among my people to flee from an enemy. I hope, one day, there will be greater understanding and peace."


Four-Heart
* Krobus wants to meet another human
* Introduce Krobus to Linus?
* Krobus wants to advocate on behalf of the shadow people... somehow.
* Maybe Krobus starts going out at night (in disguise?) after this event, and/or going to visit Linus.

Six-Heart
* Something at the Wizard's tower or the Adventurer's Guild? Evening.
* Make sure player has gotten far enough in the mines to see shadow people. To the bottom would be fine if specific floors are tricky to set.
* What should Krobus want here? Not sure. I think he would be upset about the killing of shadow people as a matter of course by adventurers, but without another viable option that will just get players upset...
* Establish communication between humans and shadow folk?
* It is possible Krobus is a bit of an oddity among shadow people because he is so curious about humans and doesn't want to fight them. (Is he also curious about dwarves?)
* ...Intercultural exchange fair??


Eight-Heart
* Human-shadow-maybe dwarf intercultural exchange fair? :D
(Possible sites: the community center, the library, the secret woods, the big event room next to Pierre's shop, the cave at the mine entrance. I would really prefer the community center, but that presents a problem if the player goes the JojaMart route, as it doesn't make much sense to hold an event in a warehouse. The sewer is also an option but seems inhospitable for the townsfolk.)
(A collection of tables has been set up - I might play around with tilesheets for ideas, and am tempted to borrow set dressing/characters from Festival of the Mundane if the authors are okay with that. Anyway, there is a food table, some booths selling the kinds of things you might find in Krobus's shop and/or the mines, a dartboard, etc. I think a shadow person jug band would be really fun albeit tricky to art. On the other side of the room are some human booths, such as Pierre's shop, maybe Sebastian's running a games table or Sam's band is there for music (or to play with the shadow jug band, ha!). Krobus is running around checking on everyone, the Wizard is somewhere visible but off to the side, so is Marlon. Hat Mouse and Dwarf are probably there somewhere too. Camera pans over all of this.)
(Krobus moves to the center of whatever area this ends up being.)
Krobus: "Ahem... May I have everyone's attention, please?"
(All/most characters turn toward Krobus.)
Krobus: "Thank you. On behalf of myself, the enchanter Magnus Rasmodius, Marlon of the Adventurer's Guild and the venerable Seigneur Hiedra of the Shadow, I would like to formally welcome you all to the Crepusculum Festival."
(Clapping and assorted "hear hear"s from the crowd, possibly.)
Krobus: "Today is a day of newfound understanding and connection between our peoples. I thank all of you, whether human, shadow, dwarf, or woodland being, for opening your minds to attend."
Krobus: "I also wish to thank my dear friend, [Player]. Without [his/her] unfailing support, I would not have been able to make this day a reality. [Player]... I am eternally grateful."
(Player makes the smiley face emote.)
Krobus: "Lastly, I want to announce that the void custards and 'peach cobbler' have just come out of their respective ovens, and I hope you will all partake! Thank you, again, for coming, and please enjoy the rest of the festival."
Krobus (very happy): "Truly. Thank you very much.$7"
(Assorted clapping and shouts of support from the attendees. Player moves to join Krobus as the assorted humans and shadow people start going back to their activities. Several junimos appear, wave, and disappear again. Player does the startled animation. Both player and Krobus then smile.)

After event:
"It looks like the festival was a success.$h"

// This *could* be expanded to an actual town festival with an event for Krobus's speech, but that would require making everything/everyone interactable and would probably be a lot more work.



Ten-Heart
* The townsfolk are now aware of Krobus and (with some reservations) accept his presence.
* His presence around town should become more noticeable after this event (or possibly after his 8-heart event).

Dwarf-and-Krobus event
* ???



-Schedule-
At first, Krobus stays in the sewer all day, as in vanilla.

After one of his later heart events (undecided which), he starts to go out in the 10 PM - 2 AM window (around town, standing by a bush or something in case a human walks by, maybe inside the community center or JojaMart after it's abandoned) and on rainy days (outside of town).

If he is accepted by the townsfolk later in his arc, perhaps he will occasionally turn up in the saloon... probably to stand there awkwardly. I'm not sure what he'd think of beer, but he'd certainly have fun people watching. :)
-> Friday/maybe Saturday nights at ten hearts: Krobus shows up in the saloon to people-watch. The townsfolk comment on his presence the first few times this happens. :D

On snowy days in winter he may spend time at the spa.

He likes humidity and would enjoy hanging out by bodies of water. He may want to visit his people in the mines.

Outside Linus's tent: Mountain 31, 7
Hat Mouse: Forest 31, 95
Outside Sewer (Forest): Forest 93, 101
Near library: Town 108, 97
Inside library, by fireplace: ArchaeologyHouse 42, 4
Inside library, by a study carel: ArchaeologyHouse 14, 14
Beach, tide pool dock: Beach 82, 38
Beach, by warp totem/wreckage: Beach 18, 6
Sewer entrance (town), behind a tree: Town 31, 96
Near sewer (town), by the river: Town 42, 102
NEXT to the tree instead: Town 32, 97
Near sewer (town), by the river: Town 42, 102
Inside Adventurer's Guild, by corner table: AdventureGuild 10, 18
Inside Saloon, by bear statue: Saloon 24, 17
Center of spouse patio: Farm 71, 8
Bus stop, under big tree by fence: BusStop 6, 20
Bus tunnel, near barrier under a light: Tunnel 10, 7
Near the bridge: Town 49, 101
Near graveyard, behind a small bush: Town 41, 93
CC behind Junimo hut: CommunityCenter 22, 7
CC boiler room, by mushrooms: CommunityCenter 61, 15
CC kitchen: CommunityCenter 8, 6
Wizard's tower, in the back by a bookshelf: WizardHouse 2, 6
Wizard's tower, by the books near the cauldron: WizardHouse 5, 19
Wizard's tower, by the table: WizardHouse 11, 20
Forest river dock near tower: Forest 34, 25
Outside Marnie's cow pen (left side): Forest 92, 20
Inside the bathhouse (vanilla): BathHouse_Pool 13, 10
Inside bathhouse entrance (vanilla): BathHouse_Entry 5, 4
// Note to self: Check coordinates against the bathhouse hot spring mod at some point if only cuz *I* use it, haha


Reactions:
Linus would probably be a little confused by him at first but accept him rapidly.
Jas would be intimidated but warm up upon seeing Krobus is friendly.
Abigail would have to be talked down from thinking he's a monster to fight, then be very excited. Vincent, amusingly, would probably be the same.
Shane would just flat-out refuse to believe it.
Sebastian would relate to hiding underground all day. ;)
Sam would be on board if Seb and Abigail were.
The parent figures (Caroline, Pierre, Jodi, Kent, maybe Marnie) would be concerned to varying degrees.
Morris would be straight-up horrified because Morris is awful.